So what is the
traditional argument for
how artificial
intelligence can provide
value in areas that have been
traditionally occupied
by human intelligence,
for example, general
decision-making?
Well, the first thing is
lower cost and the ability to
operate at scale and
operate efficiently.
For example, well-known human
biases that include
order effects.
In other words, humans make
different decisions for
the same challenges or
questions based on the order
which they see them,
effects related to time
of the day or mood.
The impact of
individual experiences.
For example, a doctor gets
into a crash on
the way to the office.
It turns out that can
affect decision-making.
Well, algorithms ostensibly not
only allow scale and speed,
but it regularity that would
otherwise not necessarily be
in place for
human decision-making.
Machines may not be only less
error prone than humans,
but could do all of
the above faster,
and again at greater scale.
Another fascinating area
where artificial intelligence has
seen success and use cases is
automated customer support.
Some of you might have
had the experience
in which either through a chatbot
online or even
speaking on the phone,
you've encountered
algorithmic counterparts or
decision trees that
appear to take
a human character when
you interact with them.
Having a personal touch or
the ability to be relatable.
It's clear to see how this
might lower cost because
the marginal cost of an
algorithm might be nearly zero,
whereas the marginal
cost of a person
maybe related to wages,
and benefits and so on.
In addition 24-7 availability
may alter the case
for algorithms in customer
support for the rest of time.
Now, there are
some controversies.
Clearly, we see in
the robo advisory
industry applications
involving AI and a future for AI.
However, it's not so clear
exactly what the role
will be in equilibrium,
and in fact, if whether
the equilibrium is
stable or constant at all.
There have been some
who have suggested that
the entire investment
advisor industry will move
away from humanity and
toward algorithms,
interaction with chatbots
or robo advisors,
and ultimately
disintermediate humanity.
In part due to
legal and compliance issues
however, at least currently,
it's unlikely in
the near term that
acute computer can be
or will be held to
a fiduciary standard
which is required in
most countries including
the US by laws.
For example, the Investment
Advisors Act of 1940 requires
a fiduciary duty or
the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act,
ERISA which governs
pension related activities and
some cases requires
a fiduciary duty,
which is not clear
algorithms can arise to.
This controversial area
will certainly be
addressed in
the next several years.